Add AWS S3 doc (#106)
streamnative/pulsar-hub: offloaders/aws-s3/2.5.1/aws-s3.md

author: ["ASF"]
contributors: ["ASF"]
language: Java
document:
source: "https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/tiered-storage/jcloud/src/main/java/org/apache/bookkeeper/mledger/offload/jcloud"
license: Apache License 2.0
license_link: "https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
tags: ["AWS S3", "Offloader", "Pulsar"]
alias: AWS S3 offloader
features: ["Offload data from BookKeeper to AWS S3"]
icon: "/images/offloaders/aws-logo.png"
download: "https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=pulsar/pulsar-2.5.1/apache-pulsar-offloaders-2.5.1-bin.tar.gz"
support: StreamNative
support_link: https://streamnative.io
support_img: "/images/connectors/streamnative.png"
owner_name: "StreamNative"
owner_img: "/images/streamnative.png"
dockerfile: 
id: "aws-s3"
---

# Overview

To deliver an event streaming service, Pulsar needs to manage large numbers of messages and data in real-time, and this requires keeping large amounts of data on the platform, or readily accessible. As the data amount increases, it becomes significantly more expensive to store, manage, and retrieve data, so administrators and developers look to external stores for long-term storage. 

> Pulsar leverages a unique **tiered storage** solution that addresses some of these key challenges faced by other distributed log systems. This tiered storage solution extends the storage capabilities of Pulsar by offloading data from Apache BookKeeper to scalable cloud-native storage or filesystems without adding storage. Older topic data can be offloaded to long-term storage that readily scales with the volume of data. 

Reviewer: filesystems or file systems, please keep consistent through the whole doc.

# Installation

Follow the steps below to install the AWS S3 offloader.

## Prerequisite

- Filesystem: 2.4.2 or later versions
  
- Apache jclouds: 2.2.0 or later versions

## Step

1. Download Pulsar tarball using one of the following ways:

   * download from the [Apache mirror](https://archive.apache.org/dist/pulsar/pulsar-2.5.1/apache-pulsar-2.5.1-bin.tar.gz)

   * download from the Pulsar [downloads page](https://pulsar.apache.org/download)

   * use [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget):

     ```shell
     wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/pulsar/pulsar-2.5.1/apache-pulsar-2.5.1-bin.tar.gz
     ```

2. Download and untar the Pulsar offloaders package. 

    ```bash
    wget https://downloads.apache.org/pulsar/pulsar-2.5.1/apache-pulsar-offloaders-2.5.1-bin.tar.gz
    tar xvfz apache-pulsar-offloaders-2.5.1-bin.tar.gz
    ```

3. Copy the Pulsar offloaders as `offloaders` in the Pulsar directory.

    ```
    mv apache-pulsar-offloaders-2.5.1/offloaders apache-pulsar-2.5.1/offloaders

    ls offloaders
    ```

    **Output**

>     As can be seen from the output, Pulsar uses [Apache jclouds](https://jclouds.apache.org) to support [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) and [GCS](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) for long term storage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As shown from the output, Pulsar uses [Apache jclouds](https://jclouds.apache.org) to support [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) and [GCS](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) for long term storage. 
```

    ```
    tiered-storage-file-system-2.5.1.nar
    tiered-storage-jcloud-2.5.1.nar
    ```

    > #### Note
    >
    > * If you are running Pulsar in a bare metal cluster, make sure that `offloaders` tarball is unzipped in every broker's Pulsar directory.
    > 

>     > * If you are running Pulsar in Docker or deploying Pulsar using a Docker image (such as K8S and DCOS), you can use the `apachepulsar/pulsar-all` image instead of the `apachepulsar/pulsar` image. `apachepulsar/pulsar-all` image has already bundled tiered storage offloaders.

Reviewer: K8S or Kubernetes?

Author: K8s
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50226895/83413740-f0a57100-a44e-11ea-8014-8ae8bf5ca015.png)

# Configuration

> #### Note
> 
> Before offloading data from BookKeeper to AWS S3, you need to configure some properties of the AWS S3 offload driver.

Besides, you can also configure the AWS S3 offloader to run automatically or trigger it manually.

## Configure AWS S3 offloader driver

You can configure the AWS S3 offloader driver in the configuration file `broker.conf`.

- **Required** configurations are as below.
  
    Required configuration | Description | Example value
    |---|---|---

>     `managedLedgerOffloadDriver` | Offloader driver name, which is case-insensitive. <br><br>**Note**: there is a third driver type, s3, which is identical to aws-s3, though it requires that you specify an endpoint URL using `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadServiceEndpoint`. This is useful if using an s3 compatible data store other than AWS S3. | aws-s3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `managedLedgerOffloadDriver` | Offloader driver name, which is case-insensitive. <br><br>**Note**: there is a third driver type, S3, which is identical to AWS S3, though S3 requires that you specify an endpoint URL using `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadServiceEndpoint`. This is useful if using an S3 compatible data store other than AWS S3. | aws-s3
```

    `offloadersDirectory` | Offloader directory | offloaders
    `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadBucket` | Bucket | pulsar-topic-offload

- **Optional** configurations are as below.

    Optional | Description | Example value
    |---|---|---
    `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadRegion` | Bucket region | eu-west-3
    `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadReadBufferSizeInBytes`|Size of block read|1 MB
    `s3ManagedLedgerOffloadMaxBlockSizeInBytes`|Size of block write|64 MB
    `managedLedgerMinLedgerRolloverTimeMinutes`|Minimum time between ledger rollover for a topic<br><br>**Note**: it is not recommended that you set this configuration in the product environment.|2

>     `managedLedgerMaxEntriesPerLedger`|Max number of entries to append to a ledger before triggering a rollover.<br><br>**Note**: it is not recommended that you set this configuration in the product environment.|5000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `managedLedgerMaxEntriesPerLedger`|Maximum number of entries to append to a ledger before triggering a rollover.<br><br>**Note**: it is not recommended to set this configuration in the product environment.|5000
```

### Bucket (required)

A bucket is a basic container that holds your data. Everything you store in AWS S3 must be contained in a bucket. You can use a bucket to organize your data and control access to your data, but unlike directory and folder, you cannot nest a bucket.

#### Example

This example names the bucket as _pulsar-topic-offload_.

```conf
s3ManagedLedgerOffloadBucket=pulsar-topic-offload
```

### Bucket region 

> Bucket region is the region where a bucket is located. If a bucket region is not specified, the **default** region (`US East (N. Virginia)`) is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bucket region is the region where a bucket is located. If a bucket region is not specified, the **default** region (`US East (N. Virginia)`) is used.
```

> #### Tip
>
> For more information about AWS regions and endpoints, see [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html].
> 
#### Example

This example sets the bucket region as _europe-west-3_.

```
s3ManagedLedgerOffloadRegion=eu-west-3
```

### Authentication (required)

To be able to access AWS S3, you need to authenticate with AWS S3.

Pulsar does not provide any direct methods of configuring authentication for AWS S3,
but relies on the mechanisms supported by the
[DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/auth/DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain.html).

Once you have created a set of credentials in the AWS IAM console, you can configure credentials using the following method.

* Use EC2 instance metadata credentials

>     If you are on AWS instance with an instance profile that provides credentials, StreamNative uses these credentials if no other mechanism is provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are on AWS instance with an instance profile that provides credentials, StreamNative uses these credentials if no other mechanism is provided.
```

    The broker must be rebooted for credentials specified in `pulsar_env` to take effect.

    ```conf
    s3ManagedLedgerOffloadRole=<aws role arn>
    s3ManagedLedgerOffloadRoleSessionName=pulsar-s3-offload
    ```

### Size of block read/write

You can configure the size of a request sent to or read from AWS S3 in the configuration file `broker.conf` or `standalone.conf`. 

Configuration|Description|Default value
|---|---|---
`s3ManagedLedgerOffloadReadBufferSizeInBytes`|Block size for each individual read when reading back data from AWS S3.|1 MB
`s3ManagedLedgerOffloadMaxBlockSizeInBytes`|Maximum size of a "part" sent during a multipart upload to GCS. It **cannot** be smaller than 5 MB. |64 MB

## Configure AWS S3 offloader to run automatically

Namespace policy can be configured to offload data automatically once a threshold is reached. The threshold is based on the size of data that a topic has stored on a Pulsar cluster. Once the topic reaches the threshold, an offloading operation is triggered automatically. 

Threshold value|Action
|---|---
0|It causes a broker to offload data as soon as possible.
Negative value|It disables automatic offloading.

> Automatic offload runs when a new segment is added to a topic log. If you set the threshold on a namespace, but few messages are being produced to the topic, offload does not work until the current segment is full.

Reviewer: automatic offload or automatic offloading? please keep consistent.

You can configure the threshold size using CLI tools, such as [pulsarctl](https://streamnative.io/docs/v1.0.0/manage-and-monitor/pulsarctl/overview/) or pulsar-admin.

### Example

This example sets the AWS S3 offloader threshold size to 10 MB using pulsar-admin.

```bash
bin/pulsar-admin namespaces set-offload-threshold --size 10M my-tenant/my-namespace
```

> #### Tip
>
> For more information about the `pulsar-admin namespaces set-offload-threshold options` command, including flags, descriptions, and default values, see [here](http://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-admin/2.6.0-SNAPSHOT/#-em-set-offload-threshold-em-). 

## Configure AWS S3 offloader to run manually

For individual topics, you can trigger AWS S3 offloader manually using the following methods:

- Use REST endpoint 

> - Use CLI tools (such as [pulsarctl](https://streamnative.io/docs/v1.0.0/manage-and-monitor/pulsarctl/overview/) or pulsar-admin). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use CLI tools (such as [pulsarctl](https://streamnative.io/docs/v1.0.0/manage-and-monitor/pulsarctl/overview/) or pulsar-admin. 
```

Author: Here is: Use CLI tools (such as [pulsarctl](https://streamnative.io/docs/v1.0.0/manage-and-monitor/pulsarctl/overview/) or pulsar-admin).

>     To trigger via CLI tools, you need to specify the maximum amount of data (threshold) that should be retained on a Pulsar cluster for a topic. If the size of the topic data on the Pulsar cluster exceeds this threshold, segments from the topic are moved to AWS S3 until the threshold is no longer exceeded. Older segments are moved first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To trigger AWS S3 offloader through CLI tools, you need to specify the maximum amount of data (threshold) that should be retained on a Pulsar cluster for a topic. If the size of the topic data on the Pulsar cluster exceeds this threshold, segments from the topic are moved to AWS S3 until the threshold is no longer exceeded. Older segments are moved first.
```

2. In the navigation pane, click **Groups** > **Create New Group**.

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-group-1.png)

3. In the **Group Name** box, type the name of the group and click **Next Step**.

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-group-2.png)

4. In the list of policies, select the check box for each policy that you want to apply to all members of the group and click **Next Step**.

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-group-3.png)

5. Check all of the choices you made up to this point. When you are ready to proceed, choose **Create Group**.

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-group-4.png)

    You have successfully created a group as below.

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-group-5.png)

## Step 4: create a user

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).

2. In the navigation pane, click **Users** > **Add user**. 

![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-user-1.png)

3. Type your **user name** (not case-sensitive) and select **AWS access type**. 
   
![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-user-2.png)

> 1. Click **Next Permissions**.

Reviewer: 4?

> 2. On the **Set permissions** page, specify how you want to assign permissions to your user. 

Reviewer: 5?

    ![](/images/offloaders/aws-s3/create-user-6.png)

## Step 5: offload data from BookKeeper to AWS S3

Execute the following commands in the repository where you download Pulsar tarball. For example, `~/path/to/apache-pulsar-2.5.1`.

1. Start Pulsar standalone.

    ```
    ./bin/pulsar standalone -a 127.0.0.1
    ```

2. To ensure the data generated is not deleted immediately, it is recommended to set the [retention policy](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/next/cookbooks-retention-expiry/#retention-policies), which can be either a **size** limit or a **time** limit. The larger value you set for the retention policy, the longer the data can be retained.

    ```
    ./bin/pulsar-admin namespaces set-retention public/default --size -10G --time 3d
    ```

    > #### Tip
    >
    > For more information about the `pulsar-admin namespaces set-retention options` command, including flags, descriptions, and default values, see [here](http://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-admin/2.6.0-SNAPSHOT/#-em-set-retention-em-). 

3. To configure AWS S3 offloader, you can set offloader policy at the namespace level.

> 

Reviewer 2: hello @Anonymitaet , The action of set-offload-policies is a side-by-side operation when we configure various options in the conf file at the beginning. If we configure these attributes in the conf, we do not need to use set-offload-policies to set here .

Author: OK
